Welcome back.
Now that we've gotten used to this CSS grid
system let's introduce a few more properties.
Now another thing we can do with CSS grid
because remember I said it was two dimensional.
That is we can control the rows as well.
So far this is something
that flexbox can do as well.
We can do something like 'grid-template-rows' now
and actually define the way the rows should look as
well.
So let's say I want to do '1fr 2fr'.
What do you think will happen?
Let's see.
I'm going to save and refresh
and look at that. The first row
has '1fr' but the second row is twice
as big as the first one as we can see here.
And because of the way CSS grid works in the third
row because we haven't really added a third column
automatically if there's more items
it's going to just start repeating.
So the next row which is the
third row will have '1fr'.
So I can define different things here.
I can say '3fr' for the third row
and let's say '5fr' for the last row.
If I refresh and save.
If I save and refresh here we see that we have our
new columns or rows but that looks ugly so let's
just keep it at '1fr' which is the default.
Now another thing that we can do and you'll see a lot
of is the repeat function that we can add to something
like 'grid-template-columns'.
So instead of doing this over
here I can say 'repeat()'.
And now I say how many times
I want to repeat something.
So the first number is how many times
so let's say three times repeat '1fr'.
So that's like saying '1fr' '1fr' '1fr'
three times.
If I save this and refresh I get one two
three if I do four here and I refresh.
I get four.
And you can imagine what
happens if we do six.
We just keep repeating things.
Another thing that we can do is the auto property and
the auto property just simply means fill in whatever
available space we have.
So if I do something like 'auto 1fr 2fr' and I refresh
here you'll notice that the first column doesn't
really have any spaces
outside of the emoji.
And 'auto' can also be thought of
as the max size of the content.
If I make this fox let's say have a content of two
and I refresh you'll see that the 'auto' property
automatically resizes to fit the content.
And because this entire layout is on a grid system
it will make sure that the ones below it will have
the same size.
If I do '1fr' here and I refresh you'll see the difference
of all we're talking about it's not automatically
scaling this first grid.
Instead it's going to keep the portions that we have
and extend anything below it that doesn't fit so
'auto' is another really
really good feature to use.
But let's fix that.
All right let's tackle a few more
properties in the next video.